sites/www/index.rst, before:

Welcome to Invoke!
==================

This website covers project information for Invoke such as the changelog,
contribution guidelines, development roadmap, news/blog, and so forth.
Detailed usage and API documentation can be found at our code documentation
site, `docs.pyinvoke.org <http://docs.pyinvoke.org>`_.

Please see below for a high level intro, or the navigation on the left for the
rest of the site content.

What is Invoke?
---------------

Invoke is a Python (2.7 and 3.4+) task execution tool & library, drawing
inspiration from various sources to arrive at a powerful & clean feature set.

* Like Ruby's Rake tool and Invoke's own predecessor Fabric 1.x, it provides a
  clean, high level API for running shell commands and defining/organizing
  task functions from a ``tasks.py`` file:

  .. code-block:: python

    from invoke import task

    @task
    def clean(c, docs=False, bytecode=False, extra=''):
        patterns = ['build']
        if docs:
            patterns.append('docs/_build')
        if bytecode:
            patterns.append('**/*.pyc')
        if extra:
            patterns.append(extra)
        for pattern in patterns:
            c.run("rm -rf {}".format(pattern))

    @task
    def build(c, docs=False):
        c.run("python setup.py build")
        if docs:
            c.run("sphinx-build docs docs/_build")

* From GNU Make, it inherits an emphasis on minimal boilerplate for common
  patterns and the ability to run multiple tasks in a single invocation::

    $ invoke clean build

* Where Fabric 1.x considered the command-line approach the default mode of
  use, Invoke (and tools built on it) are equally at home embedded in your own
  Python code or a REPL:

  .. testsetup:: blurb

      fakeout = """
      Hello, this is pip
      Installing is fun
      Fake output is fake
      Successfully installed invocations-0.13.0 pep8-1.5.7 spec-1.3.1
      """
      proc = MockSubprocess(out=fakeout, exit=0)

  .. testcleanup:: blurb

      proc.stop()

  .. doctest:: blurb

      >>> from invoke import run
      >>> cmd = "pip install -r requirements.txt"
      >>> result = run(cmd, hide=True, warn=True)
      >>> print(result.ok)
      True
      >>> print(result.stdout.splitlines()[-1])
      Successfully installed invocations-0.13.0 pep8-1.5.7 spec-1.3.1

* Following the lead of most Unix CLI applications, it offers a traditional
  flag-based style of command-line parsing, deriving flag names and value types
  from task signatures (optionally, of course!)::

    $ invoke clean --docs --bytecode build --docs --extra='**/*.pyo'
    $ invoke clean -d -b build --docs -e '**/*.pyo'
    $ invoke clean -db build -de '**/*.pyo'

* Like many of its predecessors, it offers advanced features as well --
  namespacing, task aliasing, before/after hooks, parallel execution and more.


.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    changelog
    FAQs <faq>
    installing
    development
    prior-art
    contact

Commit message:

Link to new roadmap on BPO

sites/www/index.rst, after:

Welcome to Invoke!
==================

This website covers project information for Invoke such as the changelog,
contribution guidelines, development roadmap, news/blog, and so forth.
Detailed usage and API documentation can be found at our code documentation
site, `docs.pyinvoke.org <http://docs.pyinvoke.org>`_. Additionally, the
project maintainer keeps a `roadmap <http://bitprophet.org/projects#roadmap>`_
on his website.

Please see below for a high level intro, or the navigation on the left for the
rest of the site content.

What is Invoke?
---------------

Invoke is a Python (2.7 and 3.4+) task execution tool & library, drawing
inspiration from various sources to arrive at a powerful & clean feature set.

* Like Ruby's Rake tool and Invoke's own predecessor Fabric 1.x, it provides a
  clean, high level API for running shell commands and defining/organizing
  task functions from a ``tasks.py`` file:

  .. code-block:: python

    from invoke import task

    @task
    def clean(c, docs=False, bytecode=False, extra=''):
        patterns = ['build']
        if docs:
            patterns.append('docs/_build')
        if bytecode:
            patterns.append('**/*.pyc')
        if extra:
            patterns.append(extra)
        for pattern in patterns:
            c.run("rm -rf {}".format(pattern))

    @task
    def build(c, docs=False):
        c.run("python setup.py build")
        if docs:
            c.run("sphinx-build docs docs/_build")

* From GNU Make, it inherits an emphasis on minimal boilerplate for common
  patterns and the ability to run multiple tasks in a single invocation::

    $ invoke clean build

* Where Fabric 1.x considered the command-line approach the default mode of
  use, Invoke (and tools built on it) are equally at home embedded in your own
  Python code or a REPL:

  .. testsetup:: blurb

      fakeout = """
      Hello, this is pip
      Installing is fun
      Fake output is fake
      Successfully installed invocations-0.13.0 pep8-1.5.7 spec-1.3.1
      """
      proc = MockSubprocess(out=fakeout, exit=0)

  .. testcleanup:: blurb

      proc.stop()

  .. doctest:: blurb

      >>> from invoke import run
      >>> cmd = "pip install -r requirements.txt"
      >>> result = run(cmd, hide=True, warn=True)
      >>> print(result.ok)
      True
      >>> print(result.stdout.splitlines()[-1])
      Successfully installed invocations-0.13.0 pep8-1.5.7 spec-1.3.1

* Following the lead of most Unix CLI applications, it offers a traditional
  flag-based style of command-line parsing, deriving flag names and value types
  from task signatures (optionally, of course!)::

    $ invoke clean --docs --bytecode build --docs --extra='**/*.pyo'
    $ invoke clean -d -b build --docs -e '**/*.pyo'
    $ invoke clean -db build -de '**/*.pyo'

* Like many of its predecessors, it offers advanced features as well --
  namespacing, task aliasing, before/after hooks, parallel execution and more.


.. toctree::
    :hidden:

    changelog
    FAQs <faq>
    installing
    development
    prior-art
    contact
